so after working through the last set
of videos we've now got a working black
game that we can actually
whatever we want to either from the IDEA
or ultimately from the command line as well
the one thing we can't do is include the
blackjack module in another program
well actually we can but the results
probably not going to be what we wanted
so to see this what I'm going to do  I'm still in my
blackjack project and what
I'm going to do is create another
py file so I'm going to do a new Python file
and will call this one import_test.py we are going to start on an import so....
....and that's the name
of the blackjack.py file there in the
left hand side project section of the
IntelliJ and lets try also doing a print need it to actually have at least
one line of code in their so.... and don't worry
about the __name yet it's just
something to print out but it's also
something that we are going to discuss
shortly so we run the program actually I need to
right click first and make sure I'm running import_test and not running blackjack
because if I have click that that will have run
blackjack which is not what we're
trying to do because we are trying to run this
import_test.py so going to
click on that run import test and you can see
that our blackjack game has actually
started automatically but also note that
our print statements not executed its only
executed when we actually closed down the
window you can see the it come up
__name_ so
this is probably not what we wanted to
happen when we just importing the blackjack module and it's probably not what
you expect it either you would think
that it would just the import would only
input the code and not actually executed
and start the code is certainly in other
parts of the course that we've used the
imports statement it hasn't actually
executed the code its got it ready then we've
had to actually type in some code to
get it to work so clearly
something different is happening with our
blackjack code so I'm gonna discuss why that
happens and what you can do about it so
that you can create your own modules from
your programs and successfully reuse your
functions and classes in other programs
now you may think that all of this is
not really relevant to our blackjack
game program but in fact it actually is
its quite reasonable to include blackjack
for example in a suite of
games you know a compendium games if you like so
the main program with an import each of
the individual games and provided a menu
for the player to select a game to play so
obviously in order to do that we need to
be you know a facility to import the
Blackjack module without it immediately
running so the techniques quite simple
and once I've discuss it will be
writing over future programs along these
lines so that the functions can be made
available to other programs if we want
this is also essential when building up
class libraries in object oriented
programming so it's useful to understand
that before we move into object-oriented
programming in the next section so when
you import a Python module its codes
loaded into memory and then executed
there is a bit more that goes on sorting
out namespaces and other things but
importantly bit here is the code is
executed and that's why our blackjack
game ran when we imported its module and
you can find a complete description of
the import process in the Python
language reference and I'm just gonna bring up this link on the
screen because it can be useful thing for
you to actually check out their is the link on
the screen they're so you can go to the link
and as always its in the Resources section of
the video so what we really want
to do with the blackjack module is only
execute the code if the module is run as a
script which is what the IntelliJ
product this is both IDEA and Pycharm which is their Python
specific IDE which is what they
do if you choose to run the module in also
what Idle does when you run a file
so in the command line you can run your
Python program with something along
these lines if I just got back to the IntelliJ so
this won't work but if
you're running it on the command line you do
something like that.....
...so that's how
you actually kick it off automatically
and as I mentioned
IntelliJ IDEA and Pycharm do something
similar automatically when you choose to
run the modules as you seen numerous times
throughout this course so I'm just gonna delete that
so in all of these cases we want the
code to be executed and the main window
looped to start so that the game can be
played so that's where we're actually
running it when we are choosing to run it however
in this case where we got an import statement
on line 1 we don't want that to
happen we don't want to automatically
start as you saw started we actually just
only want it to run if we actually
specifically are telling the computer to run
it so I mentioned that importing a module
sorts and name spaces as well as
executing the code and one of the
things that happens is that an attribute of
the module called __
name__ you can see
on line three I'm printing it out now is set to be
the name of the module so that is the
file name without path or extension so
when a Python modules executed a script
though the name attribute is set to
__main__ and you can
see that was set there when we actually
printed this out over here in our output window and we can see this by printing an attribute before any of our
code runs so what we gonna do is switch
back over to the blackjack py file
...will go to a shuffle method just after
shuffle the last of the methods and just
before the first code that is
executed on line 117 so lets come up here and
we'll type...so I've now put that in the code
so we then run this so we actually running the
blackjack game again just to confirm so run
it we should see the output on the screen
and their is __main and obviously
the game itself is actually running as
well so that's good
however we go back to import_test.py if we actually run that
now you can see we get something different
altogether we get blackjack showing here
this is before the app is run and obviously
once we close it down the we also get the main
showing as well so therefore as a result
of that preventing the code from being
executed when a module is imported is very easy we just have
to check the value of the name attribute
and only execute any execute the code if
it has a value in this case a second
case __main__ so what we can do
is go back to our blackjack.py and make a
change we are going to replace the print statement
that we just added there on line 118
so close this down and we're going to change it and
instead of printing we gonna put....
...and in case the number is also obviously
important here so make sure you get those right
so we are doing a test here to see that we're
actually in the right scope so we do that
test to see whether name is equal to
main and if that's the case with are going to
indent this codes so select all this
code right down and press tab that
indented all that code now so that code
is only executed if that's the case if
__name variable__
is equal to __main__
ok so that's that and fix that up to keep IntelliJ happy
so now if we come back and we are in
import_test go back
or I could execute it their but if we run it now
we just get main showing up at but if we tab over
you notice that the blackjack game isn't now
starting so that's great it's now
working correctly however we then go back
to blackjack.py itself and actually
run it from within their we find the game is running
and that's because we specifically
said we want to run the game as opposed
to importing it so again the big
distinction there is we're running this
file so we're running this file directly
we are actually telling the IDE IntelliJ
IDEA to execute the code it's being
executed just fins and so therefore the
code on line 118 ends up being true
because we are running in main
coming over to import where we're not
executing something we are only importing it
and when we got to run that we are only getting the print out on line three and that is because this test
here on line 118 failed
because we weren't running in it main because we
are only importing it so that's great so now we can actually import our code
and not actually execute the code so
that's actually what we wanted but
unfortunately things aren't quite that
simple and because now the blackjack
code is executed we got no way to run
the game once we imported it so we
could try something like.....you could try doing that and run it but that
gives an error and of course the error is
to do with initialization because when we're
running it from there when we importing it
rather all this code from 120 through 178
has not now not being executed
consequently all these variables haven't
been defined so we haven't actually got
a dealer card frame etc so that is why its
crashing so that's actually quite easy to fix all we really have to do is decide which
bits of the blackjack module should be
executed when a module is imported and
moved the test for the __name_ to allow
that to happen so your challenge here
now is to change the blackjack module
to include a function called play that's a
responsible ultimately for allowing or
running the code that starts the game so
you want to test that the play function can be
used to start the game when the module
is imported so again change the
blackjack module itself to include a
function called play and that
function should be responsible for
actually running the code that starts
the game then test the play function can
be used to start the game when the
module is imported that your way of
knowing that things are working as they
should so go away and city and see if you can figure that
out and when you ready to come back
you can come back and check our
solutions so pause the video now....
...ok so hopefully you manage to figure
out a solution for that so again what
we're trying to do is create a function
that's responsible for actually running
the code that starts the game so again the
distinction here is it's running the
code that starts the game it's not the
initialization
go back to blackjack.py the
initialization we still want to actually
execute that at the time it gets imported
but we only want the code that actually
runs the game to be executed when we
specifically called the play function so how do
we do that well we create a new function
we are gonna call it play....and the code is
basically gonna be the code that was in
here I'm gonna take those three or 4 lines of
code their
cut those and put those into the play method
but then the other line of code we want is
the code that starts officially
and that's this code here so we are going to take that out and paste it in
there as well and that is obviously the main loop
that actually runs the game itself so
consequently we've now got a play function
that's really only going to be executed
when we're ready to actually run the game
so we now need to come back here and
remove the indent....then this
bit of code here we are gonna change this now so that name is equal to main if
that's the case we just gonna call the
play method...and that should also be
that the indent removes...so now lets try running this and
see if it actually works and what
we need to do obviously we need to move
this code down here now to be executed
right as the last line we need the rest of
the code to be executed first
and right at the end
after this initialization come down
here
...we put the code their and we can remove the new game as well at that point so at this point now it should actually work
so if we now run this running the blackjack file itself
...and click on player to get another card now we are busted click on new and we got a problem here we got no dealer card and I think I know what that is...
so close this down so what we've done is we've
added this play function and that's great
its working the first time
we play but if we come up here and have a look at
the function we got this code this
deal_player and the code
that creates or redraws the cards
initially and that needs to be put in
also to our new game method and the new
game method of courses is now executed every time
the new buttons is click just to start a new game
because otherwise that you know when a new game button
is clicked the code is executed the
frames destroyed but there were not
actually creating a new set of cards
for the player and dealers properties so if I click on their and paste that code into be
executed so now if we run this you should
find it works check here and I'll actually
hit we got 21 thats good click on dealer dealer
losses so I win click on new game and we now got it
working correctly because we're getting
a new card new hand each time and hit again
dealer got 21  dealer wins and that's working the score are all working nicely so
that's it that's good so now let's go
back and check to see whether import
_test.py is working and if you
remember we had on new_game
and that's not going to work now because we
created this function now to do it
specifically so its going to be play so if we do blackjack.play it should automatically start are game and if
we come over here and have a look it seems to be
working I'll click on player
and I'll let the dealer go the dealer wins new game
hit dealer dealer wins a game 21 and try it one more time
and player wins so it's working fine and
just as a final check if I comment that line
out and add a exta line to keep Python happy and
run it again we should find the game
now doesn't start automatically click on
and run import test and it correctly doesn't start
because we haven't invoke the play method we will leave that their anyway so that's good that's actually
working now and just as final thing we
could do if we wanted to we could do.....
...and if I do that and run it and obviously
that's not gonna be invoked now until we closed down this so close down that
you can see line of code has been executed
with our list of cards so now the
same pack of cards could be used for
many different types of games now if we wanted to
and that's really another good reason
for copying the cards lists to create
deck in the blackjack game that's why we
actually did the cards list is not
modified once it's been created so it
can be safely reused so this turned out
to not be the easiest program to import and that is because it uses a
graphical user interface that requires a lot
of initialization now there's a lot of
code that has to execute when the module
is imported and the modules also used
many global variables for the same
reason so you can get rid of the global
variables using classes and we'll be
covering that in the next section but
before we get into object-oriented
programming there's a few more aspects
of functions and namespaces that we really want to cover for you understand to finish of
this section so just one last thing
that I think we can add to this before
we actually finish of the blackjack game
and it relates to this code here that I duplicated
so its probably not a good idea we
need to execute this code for dealing
with the player every time dealing new
card for the player one for the dealers and
another for the player each time we are invoking a new game and likewise when we are gonna play
for the first time we need to do that as
well and we don't want to actually put
all this code and only execute the new
game method the first time when we play because
we basically deleting the frame and
re-creating it again so what I'm going to do
is just create one final method and put
this code that is going be executed in two
places in there so that we're not
duplicating our code because it's always a
good idea to fix the issue if your duplicating code so come up here
and I'm going to create a new method so call it....
...and this is going to be our initial
dealing of the cards when a new game
start so grab this code here and I'm gonna
place it in init deal then under the new
game here  and I'm gonna
go....
....
.....
....what's
happening now is that we haven't got any
code duplicated and if by chance we
decided to change the code to d
that initial deal you know maybe we did
something else or showed it or added another
labeled or did something we can still
modified it one place namely the
initial_deal and it's still gonna
work so let's check that does work
I'm actually running import test because its selected
so so that should have started and that's
because we got the code now to play
and just make sure that the game does
work
we got 20's so I'm going to click on deal and i win that click on new game and we got cards looks like its going to work
i'm gonna play 19 dealer 18 and I win again i'm on a roll one
more
15 actually will just try another one and will just see whether the ace does work I think we saw that working but lets just
check that and will do one more and notice how
that's work we've got 456789 10 and 11 is 21
but lets actually click another
card even though you wouldn't ordinarily do
that just to make sure the ace going back
to one does work so click on that
and you can see that does work 6 3 9 3 is 12
4 is 16 1 is 17 so we definitely got the ace
working on either 11 or 1 depending
on the hands so that's good and click on deal and the
dealer wins this time so that's working okay and
lets do just one final check before we
finish this going to blackjack it will just
run from here
to confirm that it still works that way and that is still working so click
on dealer and player wins alright so
I'm going to finish this video here now
and we'll continue on in the next video